It was a bright moonlit night.
All the animals in Mangu's
farm were sleeping.
Except Tinku!
I am not sleepy, Ma,
murmured Tinku.
But Ma did not hear him.
She was fast asleep.
He turned left, and
he turned right.
He rolled on his tummy, and
he rolled on his back.
But he could not sleep!
So he set off into the night
to see what he could find.
Up in the sky, Tinku
saw the moon,
white and round,
smiling down at him.
He felt very happy. ‘Night is
beautiful,’ thought Tinku.
Far away on top of a tree,
there were some tiny lights.
One spot of light flew down! I’m a
firefly, said the spot of light.
I glow in the dark!
Will you be my friend? asked Tinku.
Yes, I will! said the firefly.
Something flew by and hung
upside down on a tree.
What is your name, bird?
asked Tinku.
I am not a bird, I am a bat.
I can see during the night!
said the bat.
Will you be my friend?
asked Tinku.
Yes, I will! said the bat.
A few leaves moved in the bushes.
Someone was hiding!
Who are you? said Tinku.
I am a fox, said the fox.
I go strolling out at night.
Will you be my friend?
asked Tinku.
Yes, I will! said the fox.
Two shiny eyes looked
at him from a tree.
Who are you? asked Tinku.
I’m an owl, said the owl. I
hunt for food during the night.
Will you be my friend?
asked Tinku.
Yes, I will! said the owl.
CHIRRRRRP! CHIRRRRRP! Who is here?
Tinku asked.
I’m a cricket, said the cricket.
I chirp when it is dark.
Will you be my friend?
asked Tinku.
Yes, I will! said the cricket.
Tinku and his friends jumped and
tossed and rolled until Tinku yawned.
I am sleepy. I have to
go home now, said Tinku.
He was happy that he
had made many new friends.
Snuggling close to Ma, he said,
Night is not a lonely place, Ma.
Night is full of wonderful beings.
Yes! Said Ma. Your new friends are
nocturnal, just like wild dogs.
Nocturnal animals eat,
play and work at night.
They rest during the day.
You must sleep now.
Sleep will give you energy to play
with your day-time friends tomorrow.
Good night, little one! she
said, hugging him tight.
The bright round moon
shone all night long,
spreading her calm
light all around.
And Tinku slept all
through the night!